MANO MARKS: Hi.
Welcome to Google Geo
Developers Series.
I'm Mano Marks, developer
advocate on Google's Geo
Developer Relations team.
Today I'd like to introduce
Chad Killingsworth, who is
going to be talking about
using the Google Closure
Compiler with Google Maps API.
So take it away, Chad.
CHAD KILLINGSWORTH:
Thanks, Mano.
Today we're going to talk about
how to speed up your
Maps using Closure Compiler.
I'm Chad Killingsworth.
I'm the assistant director of
Web and New Media at Missouri
State University.
And I maintain our campus map,
which has a large amount of
data, and a lot of different
layers and a lot of different
data sets combined
on the same map.
So by nature, my map--
without optimizations, the
map actually tends to
run somewhat slow.
So I started investigating
how to do a lot of these
optimizations.
And today we're going to talk
about using Closure Compiler,
which helps with the JavaScript
side of things to
speed things up dramatically.
So when we talk about Maps,
there's a number of issues
that come to the top of the
list that slow down a map.
In particular, using large
amounts of data, large amounts
of polylines, markers, any large
amounts of just data on
the map can slow them down.
Now there's ways to mitigate
that with KML layers and other
techniques.
One of the other issues they
can slow a map down is the
size and complexity
of the JavaScript.
The map's API itself
is not small.
And then, the more JavaScript
we add to our mash-ups, the
slower our map runs.
As a rule of thumb, I try to
avoid using third-party
libraries, even things as common
as jQuery and other
things, because the map
site has so much
JavaScript on it as it is.
But the more of that we add, and
the more complexity, the
more that slows down the map.
And network latency also
slows down the map.
We are transferring a large
amount of data back and forth,
tiles, JavaScript,
marker images.
So everything we can do to
reduce network latency.
And this especially shows
up on mobile devices.
In fact, all of these things
show up more heavily on mobile
devices since they are memory
constrained as well as
processor constrained, in
addition to having higher
latency networks.
But today, we really want to
concentrate on the impact of
JavaScript on the map speed.
At Google I/O 2009, there was
a presentation where it was
stated that on the iPhone 3G at
the time, it took about 20
milliseconds to parse each
kilobyte of JavaScript.
Well, that calculated with the
Maps API V2 code to be about
four seconds of just
parse time.
Now during that time,
the phone was
basically locked and unusable.
This is definitely not the user
experience you wanted.
So the Maps team has taken a lot
of steps to make that not
be such an impact
on the V3 API.
However, on top of that, all of
our code goes through the
same limitations.
And so everything we can do
to mitigate that helps.
Faster devices, newer phones,
desktop browsers, all of those
lessen that impact.
But JavaScript still plays
a crucial role in the
speed of the map.
So we want to do everything we
can to make it run faster.
So typically, when you're
working with JavaScript, we
don't like to write obfuscated
code with variable names that
are A, B, C, D. It's not good
to maintain a large code
library like that.
It's really hard for other
people to look at it.
So typically we use a JavaScript
compressor.
When we talk about JavaScript
compressors, there's several
that are usually talked about
and grouped together.
Some of the most common ones are
Dean Edwards Packer, the
Yahoo User Interface Compressor,
JSMin, and then
the one we're going
to concentrate
today, Closure Compiler.
So over all of these,
what are the
advantages of Closure Compiler?
Well first of all, Closure
Compiler is a true compiler,
not just a compressor.
Unlike some of the others, it
actually parses your entire
JavaScript, makes a symbol tree,
does a whole bunch of
optimizations, and then where it
differs from most compilers
is that it spits back
out JavaScript.
Now, the Closure Team is fond
of saying, it spits back out
better JavaScript.
And I tend to agree.
It does quite a few things
for your code.
One of the biggest advantages
is it helps identify
errors in your code.
And as we'll see later in the
presentation, it can actually
identify type errors and a lot
of other things that normally
don't come up in JavaScript
until you actually deploy it.
So it's really helpful there.
Closure's also optimized for
servers, which gzip and
compress their JavaScript
for you.
So the source code itself is
optimized such that the
strings are more compressible,
and it's optimized.
So sometimes you can get cases
where the non-gzipped source
code is actually larger than
some of the other compressors.
But in almost every case
I've ever seen, the
gzip source is smaller.
So some of the optimizations
that Closure can do on your
source code include constant
folding, function inlining,
dead code elimination.
It does loop optimizations and
variable renaming and reuse,
all really good things
to have.
Closure Compiler works in
several different modes.
The first one is Whitespace
Only.
And truthfully, that's just kind
of a toy, and it's not
really useful in that it's not
that hard to remove your own
whitespace.
And you don't really get that
many benefits from doing that.
Where the benefits really start
to come in to play are
with the Simple Optimizations,
and it performs a set of
relatively safe optimizations
on your code.
I say relatively because it's
still possible to write code,
which will be broken once you
compile it with Simple
Optimizations.
But it's much more unlikely.
Advanced Optimizations, now that
gives you your best code
size and performs the highest
number of optimizations.
But it typically requires
changes to your source code to
correctly compile
through there.
There are some pretty big
assumptions that Compiler
makes that you've got
to account for.
So we'll talk about
that in a minute.
So let's look at a real-world
example.
All of these were done with
the JavaScript for the
Missouri State Campus Map.
Uncompressed, it's around 40k.
And so going through each of the
compressors, then you can
see that JSMin reduces that to
68% of that size at about 28k.
Dean Edwards Packer
is 67% at 27k.
YUI Compressor gets it
down to 62% at 25k.
But in this case, Closure, in
both modes, totally smokes
everything else.
And Simple Mode Closure gets it
down to 55% at 22 and 1/2k.
And Closure Compiler in Advance
Mode brings it all the
way down to 39% at about
16k, 15 and 1/2k.
So that's some really good
compression at that point.
When we run that compressed code
then through gzip, how a
high-performance web server
would do it, we can look that
the original source was just
compressed down to 20% down to
a little over 8k.
And then we go through all the
rest, pretty much in the same
order before.
JSMin was 16%.
Packer was just under 16%.
YUI Compressor was just over
15%, and then Closure Compiler
in Simple Mode was 14.3% and
in Advance Mode was 12.5%.
So we can go from our original
40k source down to, after
Closure Advance, down to
a 5k gzip source code.
So as far as network speed,
that helps a lot.
Now, the parse time is going
to be based on that
un-gzipped, that uncompressed
source code, which Closure
Compiler had at about
the 16k range.
But that's still a significant
savings over the
original 40k file.
When you use Closure
Compiler, there's
several ways to use it.
You can use the web
application.
And there's the web address,
closure-compiler.appspot.com.
And it works a lot like
just an online form.
You can just paste in your
JavaScript, hit Compile, and
then copy out the compressed
source.
However, with more advanced
options, it becomes pretty
difficult to use the
web application.
But there's a web service API
where you can post your code,
and it'll return the
compressed version.
But really, the one that I use
most is a downloadable JAR
application.
And you could also--
closure is an open-source
project, so you can download
the whole source tree in Eclipse
and make your own
custom build.
There's actually some
optimization passes that
aren't enabled by default,
because they
break certain code.
But if your code isn't one of
that, then you can get even
more savings by making a custom
build to the Compiler.
So an example usage
of the downloaded
application would be--
it's a JAR, so the Java-jar,
the Compiler, you have to
specify the compilation level.
Again, that was Whitespace Only,
Simple Optimizations, or
Advanced Optimizations.
You put your input JavaScript
file and your output
JavaScript file, and
away it goes.
This is true of most compressors
that do any
significant optimizations.
But there are certain JavaScript
statements that you
need to avoid.
The "with" statement in
JavaScript changes how scope
and names are processed.
It changes the scope.
And you can actually have naming
conflicts between local
and global names with that.
And so the Compiler doesn't
know which one you're
referring to.
So avoid using the
"with" statement.
The "eval" statement, the
Compiler doesn't optimize
anything inside of a string.
It takes it as a literal.
And so inside an "eval"
statement string, none of
those optimizations.
So if you declare a variable
with a name outside and then
reference that variable in an
"eval" string, if the outside
variable gets renamed, then your
code's going to break.
So you want to avoid using
"eval." There are some
specific places that "eval" is
still appropriate, but just as
a general rule of thumb.
And the other one actually
doesn't come up very often.
But certain libraries like to
use a function named .ToString
to see what the original
function name
and arguments are.
Well, because those arguments
get renamed with Closure
Compiler, that can
cause problems.
And so you should avoid using
string representations of
functions of variable names.
With the Compiler, we saw
earlier, Advance Mode, by far,
gives you the best
optimizations.
But it does come with
a few caveats.
Chances are, you will have to
make changes to your source
code to be able to use it.
Otherwise, when you compile it,
you'll get JavaScript that
doesn't run on your
page properly.
Using Advanced Optimizations,
there are several things you
have to pay attention to
in your source code.
And they're well documented on
the Closure Compiler site.
But let's go over a few of
the most common ones.
The first thing is you need to
annotate your JavaScript with
JSDoc tags.
If you're familiar with Java,
you're probably familiar with
the Javadoc tags.
These are very similar.
They look something like this.
And in this case, what we're
doing is we're just telling
the Compiler what types to
assume for a given function,
so that in this case, we're
telling the Compiler that the
parameter input is of type
String, and that the function
returns a string.
This helps the Compiler
do a lot of type
checking for us, as well.
One of the big assumptions in
Advanced Optimizations is that
all of the JavaScript on your
page is defined within your
source file that's
being compiled.
So if you're referencing
something from jQuery,
typically that wouldn't be
compiled in with your code.
So in cases like that,
references to other libraries
have to be defined
as an extern.
This is simply a separate file
that lists out the types of,
and the JSDocs for, functions
and properties in the
JavaScript and variables
in the JavaScript.
Here's an example.
In this case, I'm calling
google.maps.event.adlistener once.
But because this function isn't
defined in my source
code, the Compiler isn't going
to know what it is.
And it's not going to know
the types, and it's
going to throw an error.
Thankfully, for a lot of the
common libraries, including
both the Version 2 and Version
3 Maps APIs, their externs in
the Closure Compiler are
already defined.
You can download them from the
Closure Compiler source
repository in the Contrib
directory.
And just defining those
is all you need to do
in the extern file.
One of the other things that
can really break your code
with Advanced Optimizations in
Closure Compiler is mixing how
you reference an object
property.
One of the biggest things is
consistency in Closure Compiler.
So if you refer to an object,
property, or method using a
dotted syntax, you should never
turn around and refer to
it with the bracket and
the array syntax.
Here's an example.
In this case, we're defining
a new object.
It has a [? lat ?] launch
property, and we're creating a
[? lat ?] launch object.
And then right below that, we're
creating a [? lat ?]
launch string, and we're
calling the [? lat ?]
[? launch ?]
[? dot to ?] url value.
Now uncompressed, this is
syntactically correct.
But the problem is, when this
gets compiled with Advanced
Optimizations, the [? lat ?]
launch variable property will
get renamed.
But the reference to it in
square brackets with a string
will not get renamed.
And so we will be referring to
an undefined property, and
that'll throw a JavaScript
error.
So this is just an example.
They either both need to be the
square brackets with the
strings, or both need to be
the dotted properties.
But mixing back and forth
causes problems.
The next one is, in Advanced
Optimization, one of the
biggest advantages is Closure
Compiler will remove all
unreferenced code.
It's dead code elimination.
But to do that, it assumes that
every function and every
property in your JavaScript file
is used within the file.
And on the web, that oftentimes
is not the case.
Sometimes we're developing
a library to be
used for another purpose.
And sometimes we simply are
defining like a mouseover
function that'll be referenced
on an HTML element.
This code demonstrates this.
This is a function that's going
to do a replacement on
the source of an image when
it's moused over.
But in this case you'll notice
we have the function defined.
But right below it you'll see
what we have to do to make
sure that Closure Compiler
doesn't remove it.
We're exporting it.
And we're using that string
syntax that we referenced in
the one before to prevent the
Compiler from renaming that or
aliasing it in any way.
And so in this case, now we're
assigning the function to a
global object.
And so the Compiler won't
consider it dead code and
won't remove it.
So this is referred to as
exporting the function.
Once you've got your code
correctly compiling without
errors, chances are, with
Advanced Optimizations it's
still not going to
run properly.
You're going to have
runtime errors.
And those can be pretty
difficult to debug in a
compacted file.
Some of the best ways to debug
your JavaScript is with the
PRETTY_PRINT option.
In this case, the Compiler
correctly renames everything
in your file and does all
of its optimizations.
But it leaves a lot of white
space in, properly indents the
code, has line breaks, makes
it a lot easier to read.
And then when you compare it
with your original source
file, it's pretty easy to step
through and see where the
actual problem is occurring.
A lot of times, this is because
of a missing JSDoc or
an undefined variable.
There's a tool, actually, to
make this entire process
easier, and that's the Closure
Inspector, which is an add-on
for Firebug, which is an
add-on for Firefox.
And there's some great
documentation on the Closure
Compiler site on how to
use Closure Inspector.
But basically, it will do that
mapping from your compressed
source back to your original
source for you and allow you
to get in there with an editor
and see what's going on.
So those are the two biggest
ways, easiest ways, to debug
your Compile JavaScript.
All right.
So hopefully you're interested
in Closure Compiler now.
It makes a really big difference
on map sites, since
they're typically JavaScript
heavy as it is.
And just some information,
Closer Compiler is gaining in
popularity.
It's currently used by the
jQuery Team to compress the
jQuery source tree.
They use it with Simple
Optimizations.
The Closure Compiler website
is code.google.com/
closure/compiler.
And on there, there's also
references to a discussion
group, the web application I
previously mentioned, and a
blog where the team updates
you on what's the latest
happenings with the tools.
The discussion group's a great
place if you're just stuck or
can't figure out why the
compiler's doing something.
The Closure Team is
really good about
answering those questions.
And since it's an open-source
project, that's also the first
place to go to start getting
involved with
contributing your own.
And then finally, if you're
interested more about some of
the projects I work on or about
how the Maps work, this
is my blog.
And you can also follow me
on Twitter as @ChadHikes.
I hope this has been
helpful to you.
And I look forward to hearing
how much faster your Maps run
after using Closure.